in his history will show that your
contribution to physical culture by
coming up with the x3 bar is
well-deserved
so before we start telling people about
x3 bar and I'm gonna tell everybody
something right now you have to be
open-minded when we start talking about
this because you're gonna think you know
what this is in it and you don't how did
you come up with this but we'll always
the deal behind it so my background is
in bone density research I invented a
device that puts axial compression so
like this is the axis of bone the length
of the bunk and we put force through
that bone in positions where we would
naturally absorb high-impact forces so
like you trip and fall you protect
yourself the big issue here if I look at
what people can do with full range of
motion which means you're limited by
your weaker range of motion hence we
call it the weaker range so like studies
on bench press sticking point this is
all part of the same the same discussion
so when we when we look at that and then
we look at what a human is capable of at
extension so like when I'm gonna bench
press when my arm is out here what am i
capable of with a hundred twenty degree
angle of inclusion upper to lower arm is
incredible it's actually seven times
greater than what I'm capable of in the
in a weaker range of motion so I'm
looking at this and I'm thinking we're
missing out we are leaving the games at
the gym we're not getting it like that
lifted never really got much results out
of it I was pretty average guy and then
I started reading about Westside barbell
and how he would add bands and chains
just some of their lifts and then there
was a great study done by Professor
Anderson with Cornell athletes and they
divided the athletes in the two
different groups one group did they did
use less resistance than when they would
normally use and then added bands
so let's say they had X weight here and
then that extension let's say 1.2 x or
1.3 x so hyper loading the strong range
and offloading the weak range they grew
three times the amount of muscle I
should say strength I mean muscle and
strength go together but we got a
humanist rank in that given period of
time compared to the control group who
was just doing their regular training
tested pre to post right so ultimately I
look at both groups were lifting weights
the difference is one group added vans
so and I kicked that in and this is
another thing because people will look
at the science of x3 and go well it's
not this and they pulled one sentence
out of one study and they don't know how
to read scientific documentation because
there's a reason I have multiple
references you guys I'm pulling things
or different places so then when you
look at my research out of London and
you take the two and you kind of cross
observe forget the weight we need more
variance yes we yes I still want to stay
strong
but we always talk about oh I want to
Train smart or you have a train smarter
it's called it through the x3 bar you
can be as strong as you want but in the
weak places where you normally injure
yourself it's dynamic for you yeah the
weight drops off where you're at risk
it's in it so so very quickly so it
comes of the 12-week program I think on
week three I don't remember a film that
couple weeks ago well more than 12 weeks
ago so the we get into what what's
called diminishing range of fatigue so
you do however many reps you do and then
you go to fatigue in the strong range
and then you watch it back and do reps
in the mid range because you can't get
to the strong range anymore there's a
very high weight Oh interesting
and then you missile to several levels
of failure in one set yes and one set
yeah so you're not letting a massive
amount of blood into recovery there's a
problem with pausing like if you're
doing the board press
you pause and your body immediately
starts to recover from that
Roger it's really not as intense and
experienced as this is this is absolute
fatigue of the muscle and all ranges of
motion simultaneously I love it I like
ya or in degrading ranges much called
diminishing range and the effects
basically you need one set per body part
that's what I did for a year when I
prototype it because even though I
looked at the data I thought this just
really seems too good to be true I
experimented with one at once I got the
prototype though oh I should say that at
first I was just gonna write a book
about ultra heavy band training but you
know get go fine find somebody that'll
make you bands that will hold 2 3 400
500 pounds and train with the bands the
problem is a band wants to be it wants
to conform right so it stretches and it
doesn't just it doesn't form a shape of
a bar your wrists get twisted and your
ankles of your dead lifting with that
with a foreigner bound up Tom ban at
stretch your ankles or bending inwards
it's not like lateral force right so
what happens is you have neural
inhibition which instantly starts
shutting muscle off so like when you're
uncomfortable when you're lifting
something you're you're getting a crummy
workout or not one at all because
muscles are beginning to shut off and so
within two days of experimenting these
heavy bands I'm like is not gonna work I
got a develop an Olympic bar which you
know so I can grab here and grab here if
I'm gonna do an overhead press like
where I can I can it can rotate so so
the x-ray is it's an Olympic bar a full
steel Olympic bar I coated it in rubber
a lot of people don't understand that
the whole thing is actually tested the
same spec that like a rogue you know
Olympic buyers which has some
significant cost behind at which people
look at it and go why is it so expensive
it's an alum B bar and then the bands
are not like the the goofy little rehab
bands that you can find at Walmart
these are hundreds of pounds at
extension to deliver not only you're
getting more force but you're getting
more force at more repetitions so and at
appropriate points run the muscle
contraction and what's the interesting
thing about it